---
layout: paper_detail
title: "ADO-LLM: Analog Design Bayesian Optimization with In-Context Learning of Large Language Models"
date: 2024-06-26
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18770v2
---

Analog circuit design requires substantial human expertise and involvement, which is a significant roadblock to design productivity. Bayesian Optimization (BO), a popular machine learning based optimization strategy, has been leveraged to automate analog design given its applicability across various circuit topologies and technologies. Traditional BO methods employ black box Gaussian Process surrogate models and optimized labeled data queries to find optimization solutions by trading off between exploration and exploitation. However, the search for the optimal design solution in BO can be expensive from both a computational and data usage point of view, particularly for high dimensional optimization problems. This paper presents ADO-LLM, the first work integrating large language models (LLMs) with Bayesian Optimization for analog design optimization. ADO-LLM leverages the LLM's ability to infuse domain knowledge to rapidly generate viable design points to remedy BO's inefficiency in finding high value design areas specifically under the limited design space coverage of the BO's probabilistic surrogate model. In the meantime, sampling of design points evaluated in the iterative BO process provides quality demonstrations for the LLM to generate high quality design points while leveraging infused broad design knowledge. Furthermore, the diversity brought by BO's exploration enriches the contextual understanding of the LLM and allows it to more broadly search in the design space and prevent repetitive and redundant suggestions. We evaluate the proposed framework on two different types of analog circuits and demonstrate notable improvements in design efficiency and effectiveness.
