---
layout: paper_detail
title: "AmpAgent: An LLM-based Multi-Agent System for Multi-stage Amplifier Schematic Design from Literature for Process and Performance Porting"
date: 2024-09-23
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2409.14739v1
---

Multi-stage amplifiers are widely applied in analog circuits. However, their large number of components, complex transfer functions, and intricate pole-zero distributions necessitate extensive manpower for derivation and param sizing to ensure their stability. In order to achieve efficient derivation of the transfer function and simplify the difficulty of circuit design, we propose AmpAgent: a multi-agent system based on large language models (LLMs) for efficiently designing such complex amplifiers from literature with process and performance porting. AmpAgent is composed of three agents: Literature Analysis Agent, Mathematics Reasoning Agent and Device Sizing Agent. They are separately responsible for retrieving key information (e.g. formulas and transfer functions) from the literature, decompose the whole circuit's design problem by deriving the key formulas, and address the decomposed problem iteratively.   AmpAgent was employed in the schematic design of seven types of multi-stage amplifiers with different compensation techniques. In terms of design efficiency, AmpAgent has reduced the number of iterations by 1.32$ \sim $4${\times}$ and execution time by 1.19$ \sim $2.99${\times}$ compared to conventional optimization algorithms, with a success rate increased by 1.03$ \sim $6.79${\times}$. In terms of circuit performance, it has improved by 1.63$ \sim $27.25${\times}$ compared to the original literature. The findings suggest that LLMs could play a crucial role in the field of complex analog circuit schematic design, as well as process and performance porting.
