---
layout: paper_detail
title: "An Adaptive Vector Index Partitioning Scheme for Low-Latency RAG Pipeline"
date: 2025-04-11
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2504.08930v1
---

Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems enhance response quality by integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with vector databases, enabling external knowledge retrieval to support language model reasoning. While RAG enables efficient question answering with smaller LLMs, existing optimizations for vector search and LLM serving have largely been developed in isolation. As a result, their integration often leads to suboptimal end-to-end performance. ... This paper introduces VectorLiteRAG, an optimized vector index partitioning mechanism designed for RAG systems that enhances the responsiveness of the system by jointly optimizing vector search and LLM serving across CPU and GPU system. A key challenge is to determine which indices and how much of the vector index should reside on the GPU and adjusting LLM batch sizes to balance the pipeline for lower Time-To-First-Token (TTFT) and meeting user-defined Service-Level Objectives (SLOs). To address this, we leverage the insight that cluster access in vector databases exhibits access skew, where a subset of clusters are queried significantly more frequently than others. VectorLiteRAG exploits this property through an optimized memory distribution strategy, dynamically allocating the minimum number of vector indices corresponding to frequently accessed clusters onto the GPU HBM to ensure a balanced pipeline with the LLM for high responsiveness. This adaptive partitioning scheme is guided by a statistical model that informs memory allocation and workload distribution. Our evaluation demonstrates that VectorLiteRAG improves vector search responsiveness by 2x, significantly reduces end-to-end TTFT in RAG systems by intelligently balancing memory resources between vector search and LLM execution.
