---
layout: paper_detail
title: "ChatHLS: Towards Systematic Design Automation and Optimization for High-Level Synthesis"
date: 2025-07-01
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2507.00642v1
---

The increasing complexity of computational demands has accelerated the adoption of domain-specific accelerators, yet traditional hardware design methodologies remain constrained by prolonged development and verification cycles. High-Level Synthesis (HLS) bridges the gap between software and hardware by enabling hardware design from high-level programming languages. However, its widespread adoption is hindered by strict coding constraints and intricate hardware-specific optimizations, creating significant obstacles for developers. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate substantial potential in hardware design automation. However, their effectiveness is limited by the scarcity of high-quality datasets, particularly in the context of HLS. To address these challenges, we introduce ChatHLS, an agile HLS design automation and optimization workflow that leverages fine-tuned LLMs integrated within a multi-agent framework for error correction and design optimization. Our extensive evaluations reveal that ChatHLS achieves an average repair pass rate of 82.7% over 612 test cases, outperforming the GPT-4o and Llama3-8B by 19.1% and 63.0%, respectively. Furthermore, ChatHLS delivers performance enhancements ranging from 1.9$\times$ to 14.8$\times$ upon resource-constrained kernels. By enabling sophisticated optimization reasoning within practical computational budgets, ChatHLS attains a 4.9$\times$ geometric mean speedup compared to state-of-the-art DSL-based approaches. These results underscore the potential of ChatHLS in substantially expediting hardware development cycles while maintaining rigorous standards of design reliability and optimization quality.
