---
layout: paper_detail
title: "HPCTransCompile: An AI Compiler Generated Dataset for High-Performance CUDA Transpilation and LLM Preliminary Exploration"
date: 2025-06-12
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.10401v2
---

The rapid growth of deep learning has driven exponential increases in model parameters and computational demands. NVIDIA GPUs and their CUDA-based software ecosystem provide robust support for parallel computing, significantly alleviating computational bottlenecks. Meanwhile, due to the cultivation of user programming habits and the high performance of GPUs, the CUDA ecosystem has established a dominant position in the field of parallel software. This dominance requires other hardware platforms to support CUDA-based software with performance portability. However, translating CUDA code to other platforms poses significant challenges due to differences in parallel programming paradigms and hardware architectures. Existing approaches rely on language extensions, domain-specific languages (DSLs), or compilers but face limitations in workload coverage and generalizability. Moreover, these methods often incur substantial development costs. Recently, LLMs have demonstrated extraordinary potential in various vertical domains, especially in code-related tasks. However, the performance of existing LLMs in CUDA transpilation, particularly for high-performance code, remains suboptimal. To address these challenges, we propose a novel framework for generating high-performance CUDA and corresponding platform code pairs, leveraging AI compiler and automatic optimization technology. We further enhance the framework with a graph-based data augmentation method and introduce HPCTransEval, a benchmark for evaluating LLM performance on CUDA transpilation. We conduct experiments using CUDA-to-CPU transpilation as a case study on leading LLMs. The speedup ratio of the CPU operators has an average improvemnet of 43.8\%, highlighting the potential of LLMs to address compatibility challenges within the CUDA ecosystem. Our code is available at https://github.com/PJLAB-CHIP/HPCTransCompile.
