---
layout: paper_detail
title: "New Interaction Paradigm for Complex EDA Software Leveraging GPT"
date: 2023-07-27
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14740v1
---

In the rapidly growing field of electronic design automation (EDA), professional software such as KiCad, Cadence , and Altium Designer provide increasingly extensive design functionalities. However, the intricate command structure and high learning curve create a barrier, particularly for novice printed circuit board (PCB) designers. This results in difficulties in selecting appropriate functions or plugins for varying design purposes, compounded by the lack of intuitive learning methods beyond traditional documentation, videos, and online forums. To address this challenge, an artificial intelligence (AI) interaction assist plugin for EDA software named SmartonAl is developed here, also KiCad is taken as the first example. SmartonAI is inspired by the HuggingGPT framework and employs large language models, such as GPT and BERT, to facilitate task planning and execution. On receiving a designer request, SmartonAI conducts a task breakdown and efficiently executes relevant subtasks, such as analysis of help documentation paragraphs and execution of different plugins, along with leveraging the built-in schematic and PCB manipulation functions in both SmartonAl itself and software. Our preliminary results demonstrate that SmartonAI can significantly streamline the PCB design process by simplifying complex commands into intuitive language-based interactions. By harnessing the powerful language capabilities of ChatGPT and the rich design functions of KiCad, the plugin effectively bridges the gap between complex EDA software and user-friendly interaction. Meanwhile, the new paradigm behind SmartonAI can also extend to other complex software systems, illustrating the immense potential of AI-assisted user interfaces in advancing digital interactions across various domains.
