---
layout: paper_detail
title: "OpenLS-DGF: An Adaptive Open-Source Dataset Generation Framework for Machine Learning Tasks in Logic Synthesis"
date: 2024-11-14
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09422v2
---

This paper introduces OpenLS-DGF, an adaptive logic synthesis dataset generation framework, to enhance machine learning~(ML) applications within the logic synthesis process. Previous dataset generation flows were tailored for specific tasks or lacked integrated machine learning capabilities. While OpenLS-DGF supports various machine learning tasks by encapsulating the three fundamental steps of logic synthesis: Boolean representation, logic optimization, and technology mapping. It preserves the original information in both Verilog and machine-learning-friendly GraphML formats. The verilog files offer semi-customizable capabilities, enabling researchers to insert additional steps and incrementally refine the generated dataset. Furthermore, OpenLS-DGF includes an adaptive circuit engine that facilitates the final dataset management and downstream tasks. The generated OpenLS-D-v1 dataset comprises 46 combinational designs from established benchmarks, totaling over 966,000 Boolean circuits. OpenLS-D-v1 supports integrating new data features, making it more versatile for new challenges. This paper demonstrates the versatility of OpenLS-D-v1 through four distinct downstream tasks: circuit classification, circuit ranking, quality of results (QoR) prediction, and probability prediction. Each task is chosen to represent essential steps of logic synthesis, and the experimental results show the generated dataset from OpenLS-DGF achieves prominent diversity and applicability. The source code and datasets are available at https://github.com/Logic-Factory/ACE/blob/master/OpenLS-DGF/readme.md.
