---
layout: paper_detail
title: "PowerGear: Early-Stage Power Estimation in FPGA HLS via Heterogeneous Edge-Centric GNNs"
date: 2022-01-25
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2201.10114v2
---

Power estimation is the basis of many hardware optimization strategies. However, it is still challenging to offer accurate power estimation at an early stage such as high-level synthesis (HLS). In this paper, we propose PowerGear, a graph-learning-assisted power estimation approach for FPGA HLS, which features high accuracy, efficiency and transferability. PowerGear comprises two main components: a graph construction flow and a customized graph neural network (GNN) model. Specifically, in the graph construction flow, we introduce buffer insertion, datapath merging, graph trimming and feature annotation techniques to transform HLS designs into graph-structured data, which encode both intra-operation micro-architectures and inter-operation interconnects annotated with switching activities. Furthermore, we propose a novel power-aware heterogeneous edge-centric GNN model which effectively learns heterogeneous edge semantics and structural properties of the constructed graphs via edge-centric neighborhood aggregation, and fits the formulation of dynamic power. Compared with on-board measurement, PowerGear estimates total and dynamic power for new HLS designs with errors of 3.60% and 8.81%, respectively, which outperforms the prior arts in research and the commercial product Vivado. In addition, PowerGear demonstrates a speedup of 4x over Vivado power estimator. Finally, we present a case study in which PowerGear is exploited to facilitate design space exploration for FPGA HLS, leading to a performance gain of up to 11.2%, compared with methods using state-of-the-art predictive models.
