---
layout: paper_detail
title: "RTL++: Graph-enhanced LLM for RTL Code Generation"
date: 2025-05-11
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.13479v1
---

As hardware design complexity escalates, there is an urgent need for advanced automation in electronic design automation (EDA). Traditional register transfer level (RTL) design methods are manual, time-consuming, and prone to errors. While commercial (instruction-tuned) large language models (LLMs) shows promising performance for automation, they pose security and privacy concerns. Open-source models offer alternatives; however, they frequently fall short in quality/correctness, largely due to limited, high-quality RTL code data essential for effective training and generalization. This paper proposes RTL++, a first-of-its-kind LLM-assisted method for RTL code generation that utilizes graph representations of code structures to enhance the quality of generated code. By encoding RTL code into a textualized control flowgraphs (CFG) and data flow graphs (DFG), RTL++ captures the inherent hierarchy, dependencies, and relationships within the code. This structured graph-based approach enhances the context available to LLMs, enabling them to better understand and generate instructions. By focusing on data generation through graph representations, RTL++ addresses the limitations of previous approaches that rely solely on code and suffer from lack of diversity. Experimental results demonstrate that RTL++ outperforms state-of-the-art models fine-tuned for RTL generation, as evaluated using the VerilogEval benchmark's Pass@1/5/10 metric, as well as the RTLLM1.1 model, which highlight the effectiveness of graph-enhanced context in advancing the capabilities of LLM-assisted RTL code generation.
