---
layout: paper_detail
title: "SPICED: Syntactical Bug and Trojan Pattern Identification in A/MS Circuits using LLM-Enhanced Detection"
date: 2024-08-25
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16018v1
---

Analog and mixed-signal (A/MS) integrated circuits (ICs) are crucial in modern electronics, playing key roles in signal processing, amplification, sensing, and power management. Many IC companies outsource manufacturing to third-party foundries, creating security risks such as stealthy analog Trojans. Traditional detection methods, including embedding circuit watermarks or conducting hardware-based monitoring, often impose significant area and power overheads, and may not effectively identify all types of Trojans. To address these shortcomings, we propose SPICED, a Large Language Model (LLM)-based framework that operates within the software domain, eliminating the need for hardware modifications for Trojan detection and localization. This is the first work using LLM-aided techniques for detecting and localizing syntactical bugs and analog Trojans in circuit netlists, requiring no explicit training and incurring zero area overhead. Our framework employs chain-of-thought reasoning and few-shot examples to teach anomaly detection rules to LLMs. With the proposed method, we achieve an average Trojan coverage of 93.32% and an average true positive rate of 93.4% in identifying Trojan-impacted nodes for the evaluated analog benchmark circuits. These experimental results validate the effectiveness of LLMs in detecting and locating both syntactical bugs and Trojans within analog netlists.
