---
layout: paper_detail
title: "Towards LLM-Powered Verilog RTL Assistant: Self-Verification and Self-Correction"
date: 2024-05-31
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2406.00115v1
---

We explore the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate high-quality Register-Transfer Level (RTL) code with minimal human interference. The traditional RTL design workflow requires human experts to manually write high-quality RTL code, which is time-consuming and error-prone. With the help of emerging LLMs, developers can describe their requirements to LLMs which then generate corresponding code in Python, C, Java, and more. Adopting LLMs to generate RTL design in hardware description languages is not trivial, given the complex nature of hardware design and the generated design has to meet the timing and physical constraints.   We propose VeriAssist, an LLM-powered programming assistant for Verilog RTL design workflow. VeriAssist takes RTL design descriptions as input and generates high-quality RTL code with corresponding test benches. VeriAssist enables the LLM to self-correct and self-verify the generated code by adopting an automatic prompting system and integrating RTL simulator in the code generation loop. To generate an RTL design, VeriAssist first generates the initial RTL code and corresponding test benches, followed by a self-verification step that walks through the code with test cases to reason the code behavior at different time steps, and finally it self-corrects the code by reading the compilation and simulation results and generating final RTL code that fixes errors in compilation and simulation. This design fully leverages the LLMs' capabilities on multi-turn interaction and chain-of-thought reasoning to improve the quality of the generated code. We evaluate VeriAssist with various benchmark suites and find it significantly improves both syntax and functionality correctness over existing LLM implementations, thus minimizing human intervention and making RTL design more accessible to novice designers.
