---
layout: paper_detail
title: "Toward Scalable Quantum Compilation for Modular Architecture: Qubit Mapping and Reuse via Deep Reinforcement Learning"
date: 2025-06-11
arxiv_url: http://arxiv.org/abs/2506.09323v1
---

Modular quantum architectures have emerged as a promising approach for scaling quantum computing systems by connecting multiple Quantum Processing Units (QPUs). However, this approach introduces significant challenges due to costly inter-core operations between chips and quantum state transfers, which contribute to noise and quantum decoherence. This paper presents QARMA, a novel Qubit mapping using Attention-based deep Reinforcement learning (DRL) for Modular quantum Architectures, along with its extension QARMA-R that incorporates dynamic qubit reuse capabilities. Our approach combines an attention-based mechanism with Graph Neural Networks (GNN) to learn optimal qubit allocation, routing, and reuse strategies that minimize inter-core communications. We introduce two key innovations: (1) a transformer-based encoder that captures both the global circuit structure and local qubit interactions and (2) a dynamic qubit reuse compilation mechanism that leverages mid-circuit measurement and reset operations to reduce inter-operation and qubit requirements. Our experimental results show significant improvements over state-of-the-art approaches. Compared to highly-optimized Qiskit with modular architecture configuration, QARMA-R reduces inter-core communications by up to 100% (on average 85%), while QARMA maintains 15-40% improvement for larger circuits without reuse. Against traditional modular qubit mapping, our approach achieves 96.4-100% reduction in inter-core operation. The proposed methods advance quantum circuit compilation techniques and enable the execution of more extensive quantum algorithms on resource-constrained modular quantum systems, contributing to the growing body of research on scalable quantum computing architectures.
